we're GNA have a brief but serious talk
about content marketing and actually
content strategy overall so I I saw this
uh this post on LinkedIn from Dale
Bertrand who's who's over at fire and
Spark very smart guy very smart ageny
and and does a lot of impressive
tracking look look what Dale's up to so
he he talked about how uh he generates
zero new clients at most of his speaking
events he does a lot of speaking at all
sorts of conferences and events in the
marketing universe and and at inbound
which is hubspot's big event uh annual
event he generated you know a thousand
leads for the services team and uh spoke
at these three different sessions talks
about how that blows out of the water
all the performance of the other
conferences that he goes to and he's got
this very sophisticated track tracking
process right so he knows what percent
of event leads convert into signed
contracts uh compared to overall
contracts qu quite impressive and here's
here's the thing that uh frustrated me
and a few other people who comment
on his post which was there's the thing
you do that makes people first aware of
you maybe the first time you heard of
you know our company spark Toro was
maybe with our fake followers tool back
when we used to be reliant on Twitter or
maybe it was from uh my blog post when I
left my old company mooss and wrote
about uh starting spark Toro or maybe it
was when we did our uh unique
fundraising round or speaking at some
conference or event and then there's the
thing that brought the customer to you
just before they buy sort of the last
click attribution this is almost always
the only thing any customer will ever
remember so if you were to use a survey
that asks people hey how did you find us
you're going to get a bunch of this
maybe some of this and none of these the
thing that you did that reminded them
that you exist the thing that you did
that had a positive brand impression
with not the customer but someone who
happened to talk to the customer and
turn into positive word of mouth the
thing they never saw but that made you
better at overall messaging it was
practice I do a ton of this I do a ton
of content that doesn't work but it's
practice you got to do it what about the
thing that convinced them that had that
they had the problem that your product
or service solves and I'm saying all of
these things have value and none of them
are going to be trackable in in Dale or
anyone else's sophisticated systems and
so you know Dale's got this should he
question like should he keep speaking at
these events and my question would be
well what if those engagements are what
got you the thing at HubSpot what if uh
hubspot's you know team for inbound
never would have invited you if they
didn't see you at some of these what if
it's the Reps that you put in at these
other events that made you polish your
presentations to such a degree that when
you pre presented it at inbound people
loved it they went crazy for it they
came to you as customers or what if it's
just because inbound happened to be
around the same time that interest rates
went down and now a bunch of companies
are thinking like oh maybe we should
start to put budget back into digital
marketing which I think will be
happening over the next 18
months I had this other question this
came from uh Russ Russell wck um from
liquid base and and liquid base you know
is is in SAS B2B SAS and he asks like I
I appreciate the wisdom of this is a
post from a couple weeks ago where where
I talked about how content marketing
needs to be bigger than SEO and he says
yeah content marketers know this but
it's such a struggle to to get
attribution Beyond search metrics it's
so hard to evaluate non SEO activities
if I don't
anchor content around SEO where do I
anchor it okay I let me just point this
out all marketing is just this it's just
these three things right all the
marketing you'll ever do content
marketing email marketing paid media uh
I don't care if you're buying Billboards
you're trying to reach the right people
in the right places with the right
message so the only questions you really
need great answers to are who's the
audience you have to reach what do they
read watch listen to engage with search
for in Google uh consume where can you
reach them what conferences they go to
what highways do they drive down if you
want to buy Billboards and what's the
content the message that's going to
achieve resonance and
reach so write people in right places
let's go back to uh Dale's example so
he's mostly targeting his agency is
mostly targeting be to be heads of
Revenue right that's that's the kinds of
folks so you know there's a couple
thousand people who have B2B head of
Revenue and they're LinkedIn bio or
whatever and you can see the places they
go the the things that they engage with
all that kind of stuff this is this is
good like this kind of solves that
problem the message the message is I
think the thing that Russell in
particular was asking about and and is
struggling with and I want to try and
answer this with my personal take this
is the way I do it we do it it might
work for you too my personal formula is
one of these a topic of interest that I
know my audience cares about that might
come from keyword research but usually
it doesn't usually it comes from talking
to people one-on-one it comes from
surveys we run it comes from yes spark
Toro itself right because we we use our
own we do dog fooding right we use our
own product for this but also comes a
lot from my email and uh comes from uh
things that I read online on on LinkedIn
on threads uh on Reddit even relevant
stories right that I have to tell that I
think are going to be relevant to other
people product news we do a lot of
product news product news is actually
surprisingly good for that bottom of
funnel stuff even though it it's not so
great at the top of funnel and data
journalism data journalism is Works
absolute wonders in B2B and in B Toc
actually I've seen a bunch of examples
of that and then I try and add to one of
these as many of these other things as
possible is it timely is it unique does
it provide unique value do I have
personal passion and interest around it
because this last one is so important
because if I don't care about it there's
no way for me to create the resonance to
get you or anyone else consuming it to
care about it either and then I try and
add as many of these as I can too things
that will generate emotion Inspire
curiosity answer a burning question
especially one that is not yet answered
or make that person um make the audience
member the person that is consuming the
content feel seen like Russell talked
about right in his email to me he said
gosh this really resonates I think
sophisticated content marketers know
this but it's such a struggle he's
saying I felt seen by your post when I
watch that video when I consume that I
felt seen that that is huge in creating
resonance and the the two anchors by the
way for all of content are reach right
either content that achieves lots of
eyeballs hopefully many of them with the
potentially right crowd or and or
resonance it might not reach as many
people but it truly hits The Sweet Spot
It really resonates creates you know a
memory Association creates a a drive to
want to take action with the Right
audience and a smaller audience so so
going back to Dale's initial Point here
when he's got his list of speaking leads
and contracts right he's got in red the
contract signed the leads generated in
blue right and he's showing the the
webinars and conferences and events
which is fine I I'm really worried about
whether this is dismissive of some of
the power of serendipity and the power
of second order effects and the power of
putting in the Reps and the power of
getting noticed in the right places I'm
not saying Dale should keep doing every
one of these events that's for him to
decide I'm sure he'll figure it out he's
a very smart guy I am saying I'm worried
about this this mentality overall of if
I can't track and prove that it turned
into dollars if you can't show me the
money then I should stop doing it and I
don't think that's the way to do it at
all I I I'm not actually a super fan of
this meme but I think in this case it it
does apply right which is sort of at the
uh at the rough end of the bell curve
and at the high end of the bell curve
it's just reach the right people in the
right places with the right message and
do it over and over and don't be scared
don't be scared to waste a lot of your
marketing effort I actually think
weirdly enough that if you're not
wasting some of your marketing effort if
you're not wasting some of your content
if you're not doing wrong things you
won't be doing as many right things
either and it is not all about the money